Now that you're getting used to reading information from externally owned accounts,
let's try reading from contract accounts instead.
We haven't worked much with them yet.
There's a pretty cool things you can do with these accounts that I'd like to show you.
First, we'll get some details about the contract,
read into our terminal,
check out the functions that exist on the contract,
then even call those functions on the contract ourselves.
To start, go to Etherscan and navigate to the ERC Top 20 Tokens.
From there, pick any token you'd like.
I'll pick the Basic Attention Token or BAT because I think it's pretty interesting.
It's the token made by the Brave browser,
a blockchain-based browser that provide secure,
fast, and private web browsing.
The browser was built by the creator of JavaScript
and the co-founder of Mozilla and Firefox.
That's already enough to get me interested.
Read about this more if you'd like.
Either way, let's get back to the contract.
So, click on the token you want.
From there, select the contract address shown over here.
Next, navigate to the contract code in the Code tab.
This hopefully looks familiar from earlier,
but this time we're not just looking around,
we're here to get the ABI.
The ABI is the application binary interface.
This is the representation of this contract that can be read using JavaScript.
Copy this using the button here.
Now that you have the ABI,
go back to your terminal and set this ABI equal to the variable named ABI.
You can call this variable back if you want to see a nicely formatted version of the ABI.
Now that we have that, we need to go grab the contract address.
You can get that back on Etherscan up here.
Set that equal to a variable named contract address.
Now, you have both the variables you need to start interacting with the contract.
In the documentation, you'll find a function named contract in the web3.eth module.
We can use this to read the contents of the contract. I'll try that now.
Pass in the variables you just created as shown in the documentation.
This gives us all the details of the contract including the formatters,
utilities, methods, events, and more.
We can call any of these,
but right now I'm interested in checking out the methods.
We can do that by typing contract.methods.
What we get back is a list of all the methods
we can call that had been written into this contract.
You can check back to the smart contract code if you'd like to
compare the functions you got with the functions on the contract.
If you've gotten this far,
the hard work is over.
You're now connected to the contract and can start running the contract functions.
Before wrapping up, I'll show you an example.
Keep in mind that now that we're talking to this contract,
what I'll show you isn't functions that are in Web3 anymore.
We're still using Web3 to interact with the contract,
but the last function name that we call is from this contract itself.
So, for example, if you want to see the name of the token,
you'll see that there's a name function that we can call that exists
on this token smart contract. Let's try that now.
To do that, I'll type contract.methods.name followed
by.call..call is what's going to call the function.name from the contract.
From there, this is an asynchronous call,
so we'll need to use a callback function again to actually read the value back.
Once that finishes, what we can do is
console.log the result to see the name of the token.
What I get back is the name of the token,
the Basic Attention Token.
Really cool. You can try calling any of these methods now.
I left a few examples you might want to try
out down below the video in the text description.
Try some of these, then see if there's any functions you can find
on this or other tokens that return interesting data for you.